---
layout: post
title:      "Standing up for the Challenges"
date:       2019-09-07 19:57:26 +0000
permalink:  standing_up_for_the_challenges
---


> #### Why is it not Friday yet? I want to go home so bad. I should quit this job tomorrow. Who am I? What am I doing here? I hate myself and everything that I do at work!

If you have a job, and working to earn paychecks, you must have thought of any of the statements above at least  once before. When I was working on the college applications, I did not have any specific goals or dreams about my future. All I wanted was to have a cushy job that pays me alright so that I won't have to worry about foods or shelter. I could not wait until I become completely independent and free from my parents. I had this idea that what I have to do at work to earn my paychecks does not matter. I should be able to do fun things outside of the work. It was reflected on what I did during the college years.  I did not care much if I get into big, well known schools. My high school GPA was 3.4 when I graduated. I didn't put much of effort to get the high school diploma, because It was sill good enough to get accepted from normal schools. I just picked the university that was near where I lived, and mechanical engineering as my major. I picked my major based upon the numbers of availabilities for the jobs that I can apply with it. I did not have any specific visions or jobs that I wanted to have after graduation. At last, I landed on a cushy job that pays me somewhere around 70K to 80K per year doing not much at work.


My job title is mechanical test engineer. My job is to test mechanical systems, following procedures and get the paper works done related to it. But, I faced the problems right away. This job was so cushy that I didn't have to do much to earn my paychecks. I still could put minimal efforts to get things done, and the upper management were willy nilly allowing things to slide through. After I got hang of what was going on at work, I started hating my life at work. I started to think that I want to use my brain to actually think critically and solve some problems, not just following procedures to get things done. There were some level of critical thinking involved for what I do at work, but not as muc as I wanted to be.  There were also so many slow days, that I would be so bored out of my mind, fighting not fall asleep at my desk. I would rather get things done and get paid even more.


One day at work, I was bored out of my mind and this thought came to me. It was about changing profession or getting a new job. I suffered enough of being bored and feeling not useful at work. After couple days of researching, I read some articles about data science. It stated that the data science is one of the new booming job field that uses computer science, statistics and critical thinking skills to solve customer's problems or satisfy their needs. As soon as I was done reading the articles, I felt so happy. I knew for fact that this was it. This is what I was wanting to do for my future career. I learned basic computer programming language, C++ and statistics from the previous classes and I liked both of them. Those two classes always gave me challenges and it felt great to get through all the stoppages. And also, data science can be applied to almost every field so that I will be able to find a job where I'm passionate is. My passion was completely ignored so far because I only cared about basic needs, not psychological or self-fulfillment needs. I didn't understand why it was important to follow the passion at all. I just thought following passion will turned into something stressful and painful once you have to be professional and get paid for it. But, it is not true. Now, I think that following passion will be win-win situation for me. I will get to do what I love to do and get paid even more than now. It is time for me to shine, chasing after my dreams and make it come true. 

Once I defined what my problems were and found the solution, I acted on it right away. I signed up for data science bootcamp, and I'm trying to open up a new career path and possibilities for myself for the brighter future. It will be challenging for me to learn all the daily basis skills as a data scientist within the short period of time, but I will get it done. I will only move forward towards my dreams and the passion, not the backwards or stagnant looking for cushy things ever again.

